# FRACTALMAKE

## What is it?
This is a toy program for generating fractal images from a flexible input file
format that's easy to type by hand or generate using scripting. It produces
bitmap images from a set of parameters defining the fractal.

## How does it work?
fractalmake produces fractals that are generated by the iteration of a function
with the form *f(z,c)* where *z* and *c* are complex numbers. This is a large
class of fractals, including the Mandelbrot and Julia sets. There are two 
modes of operation:

 * First mode: the test point is the *c* argument to *f*. In this case, a
   constant initial value of *z* is used for each point. The iteration is
   *z = f(z, c)*, and the point *c* is in the fractal if this iteration
   remains bounded.
 * Second mode: the test point is the *z* argument to *f*, and *c* has a
   constant value. The iteration is the same, but the point tested is the
   initial value of *z*.

In practice, we generally return a number iterations needed for the iteration
to exceed a certain tolerance for a given test point and make pretty pictures
from these numbers, instead of binary black-and-white images.

The full specification of the options needed for the program is given in
the sample configuration files included in this repository. Running the
fractalmake executable on either file will produce a picture of the corrseponding
fractal.

## Miscellany
This is not a high-performance fractal generation program. The function
specification in the option file is "compiled" to a std::function that is used
to test points. This function is constructed recursively from elementary
blocks, and since it's created at runtime doesn't get any inlining or other
optimizations, so it's much slower than a hand-optimized implementation. In
particular, depending on your computer the Mandelbrot set example included will
probably take 5-10 minutes to run. All of the pieces to create a more efficient
implementation are here, it just needs a little legwork if you still want to
use an option file to control parameters at runtime, as by default I require all
of the options to be specified.

The program will compile in Visual Studio (at least in 2015 and 2017). You'll
need to add `_CRT_SECURE_NO_WARNINGS` to preprocessor definitions for qdbmp to
build (qdbmp is not my work). Performance is worse due to worse multithreading
performance on Windows.

## Dependencies
The spline implementation uses Eigen to compute an SVD.

## License
I'm putting no license on my code in this repository. qdbmp is licensed under
the MIT license and the notice has been retained in those files.
